hey guys welcome to my channel the topic
of today's video is your favorite
language exam called TOEFL and I remind
you that you need to fool in order to
study in the US or Canada there are some
companies that require TOEFL and there
are some changes recent changes to this
exam that started in August 2019 and a
lot of those changes apply to the
speaking part of tofu which I found one
of the hardest parts because you can
practice reading at home you can
practice listening at home because the
computer can check you but when we're
talking about speaking and writing you
just need to check everything yourself
you need to listen to yourself you need
to try and find mistakes that you're
making or you would need to hire
somebody who would give you a feedback
and goodness is TOEFL test is now
shorter so they shortened it from 3.5
hours to 3 hours and the reason behind
that was there are less people taking
TOEFL these days and there are several
reasons I think that are behind this tag
because for example British immigration
system no longer accepts TOEFL if you
want to apply for a British student visa
because there was a lot of fraud around
the exam but American system Canadian
system are perfectly fine with your
TOEFL test so TOEFL is now easier but
there are some changes that I wanted to
talk about and I wanted to talk about
speaking part today and I want to give
you speaking part templates because
they're gonna be so helpful when I came
to my TOEFL test I was really like my
main concern was the speaking part
because I was like maybe I wouldn't have
those thoughts like they would ask me a
question and I wouldn't know what to
talk about
but those templates actually helped me a
lot to structure everything in my head
so I'm gonna share those templates and
these templates are applicable to the
new TOEFL test so if you're interested
continue watching
speaking now consists only of four parts
personal choice campus announcements
general to specific and I'm gonna
explain what this means in a moment and
academic lecture you're gonna receive
templates for all of them in this video
before I go to templates themselves them
before I go into explaining the
questions I also wanted to tell you that
please don't forget that there is also
writing part and they're a templates for
writing part there's also reading and
listening and my team has created a
course for you
TOEFL crash course because what you need
in order to prepare for TOEFL is get
those templates practice exercises and
learn the life hacks of TOEFL
getting ready for TOEFL doesn't have
anything to do with brushing up your
grammar or learning new words it has to
do with cracking the techniques and the
course that we've created together with
language of specialists together with a
girl who best TOEFL and scored 119 out
of 120 so we put those techniques into
that course so if you're about to take a
TOEFL highly recommend this course the
link will be below the course consists
of 14 lectures and it lasts for two
weeks and I think two weeks is actually
the maximum for you to prepare for a
TOEFL it took me ten days to prepare
because again you're not learning
English you are just preparing for TOEFL
you're just cracking the exams
techniques and you would also have
access to a live stream where you would
be able to ask specific questions like
if you were struggling with something if
there are some things that are unclear
for you you will have access to the live
stream during the course again the link
is below
I hope you will start your preparation
today and my team is super happy to help
all of my knowledge that help me pass
TOEFL is already in that course the link
is below personal choice question in
this question you will be given either
two opinions about a thing or you would
be giving advantage
and disadvantages of a thing and your
task here is to choose whatever suits
you personally and talk about why you've
chosen something so template here is
really basic so first you need to state
your point you can say I agree I
disagree with the idea blah blah blah or
you can say in my opinion this idea is
better by the way if you don't want to
write this down the PDF is below just
hit it and download it and you have
everything we've prepared everything for
you guys I believe that I'm just giving
you a couple here but when I went to the
test
I just learned one template for each
question because I don't have so much
memory space to remember three different
templates one question and I'm only
getting that question once so it should
be fine you say I agree disagree with
the first opinion then you go into
argument equai you agree with it and the
transition is I feel this way for
several reasons so what you need a line
again or whatever you choose from here
in my opinion the idea number one is
better and you name that idea I feel
this way for several reasons that's it
and then easy first reason examples
second reason example this is it this is
your first question template the last
but not the least here you can finish
with something if you want to finish you
can say this is why I think so because
if you still have time in your recording
and you want to say something you say
this is what I think so or you don't
even have to bother people who check
your TOEFL are just looking for whatever
I've given you before but what happened
to me during the exam I saw that I still
had like seven seconds and I'm like oh
my god
seconds is a lot maybe I should say
something and I was like and then the
recording stopped didn't affect my score
but if you want to avoid confusion like
that because I was totally confused I
was like oh my god what are they gonna
think about my speaking part so if you
want to avoid that learn this race again
it's gonna be faster with the other
templates but what I want you to
remember you pick up one phrase and you
only learn four phrases for this part
for example I believe that cars are
better than airplanes I feel this way
for several reasons first reason you can
enjoy the view second reason you spend
less money this is why I think so that's
it of course you need to get deeper into
the problem that is discussing this
question but you're ready like learn
this templates and you're good to go
another quick tip for me if you're
unsure of some words if you heard
something for the first time if you're
like oh I remember this amazing fancy
phrase that might sound very American
and I want to use it but I'm using it
for the first time don't do that during
the exam please only use phrases that
you're 100% sure of you're gonna be
penalized more for using a phrase in a
wrong context then for using very basic
phrases so always stick to basic phrases
don't try to be sophisticated without
understanding what's going on okay
second task is one of my favorite it's
called campus announcement well I like
it because it brings me back to my
student life you're gonna hear in a real
announcement well real exception around
45 seconds usually a hundred words and
then you're gonna hear students talking
and when you hear students talking there
is normally some background noise
they're probably in a cafeteria or
outside and they're discussing this
announcement and student would give you
a couple of reasons why he likes it or
she likes it or maybe he doesn't like it
in this task you will be required to
summarize those two reasons that the
student notice sometimes they also ask
you to summarize the college
announcement so my advice for this task
is to write every detail that you think
is important down so you will have your
piece of paper you
your pencil write down whatever numbers
that you hear like they might say in
August 2020 we're gonna open new campus
which is and you're writing August 20 20
new campus we're gonna open it
10 minutes drive from here and you're
hugging 10 minutes drive and there's
gonna be a bus shuttle and you're gonna
be bus shuttle every five minutes and
you're writing those like small details
you don't have to read every single word
but try and practice that at home
because that's really important when
completing this task when you start your
speaking part you say the campus
announcement talked about a new campus
opening soon blah blah blah then
according to probably be the student or
according to Jane this is a bad thing or
whatever she would tell you what she
thinks and you're gonna restate it and
there are two reasons that the student
or he or she mentions and I'm sorry hear
something really important you need to
be in one tense okay because there are
mentions College announcements talks
about it's good that I made this kind of
mistake
because I just want your attention here
you need to stay in one tense so the
campus announcement talks about blah
blah blah according to the student it's
a bad thing to happen and there are two
reasons that the student mentions first
reason is that students would have to
spend more time transferring from one
campus to another second reasons is that
they already have a great campus and she
doesn't understand why the university
needs to invest so much money into
building new things instead of giving
out financial aid to students I'm just
coming up with those things but you're
gonna hear them in the recording that's
it again if you still have time you can
say this is why Jane or whoever thinks
so but if you don't have time don't even
bother to finish your speech because
with emphasizing the second reason
you're actually done with a task
task number three from general to
specific what's gonna happen in this
task you're gonna have a text about a
specific phenomenon I don't know cities
in the US how they are structured second
you're gonna hear a professor or a
lecture talking for approximately a
minute and a half about one particular
city for example San Francisco like how
the way it's laid out how the streets
are named etc then they will ask you a
question regarding the lecture that
you've heard and you will have 30
seconds to prepare and 60 seconds
to talk again super useful to have all
those templates because while you're
pronouncing what if you've already
learned what I'm giving you here when
you're pronouncing this you can actually
think of the answer itself
you actually think of the information
and again when you're listening to the
lecture please write down all the
details so you can look at your piece of
paper and read from it as well and also
do the same for the article that you're
reading at the beginning of the task so
the first race that you're gonna start
with the article discusses or addresses
or whatever the PDF is the PDF is below
so you can have more options the article
discusses a typical layout of American
cities from that article we'll learn
that the streets are named first second
third and then the cross by other
streets that are named blah blah blah
so you're just paraphrasing whatever was
in the article you can also use the
phrase the reading states that maybe say
something about how people came up with
this rule then we go to the lecture for
this part explaining what was in the
article you spend 10 to 13 seconds
maximum and then you transition to the
example that was given by professor or
lecturer and you start this transition
by a phrase professor a lecturer or
whoever there is
provides an example of a typical
American city layout by talking about
San Francisco and then you go deeper
into explaining what he said first of
all he mentions that San Francisco was
built in the 18th century and the rules
were followed really carefully blah blah
blah in addition he says that there are
14 streets in San Francisco that go from
the ocean to Silicon Valley and they are
crossed by blah blah blah everything
that you've written down like all the
details try to insert them here most of
your score for this task comes from this
from explaining what the professor's
said because this is the core part of
your task and you should spend around 37
seconds on this part and this is why I
say it's really important to have all
the details and the more details you
will be able to mention the better
you'll be able to structure your answer
the more points you're gonna get for
this task and spend three seconds here
on your conclusion the examples clearly
illustrates a typical layout of an
American city that's it three seconds
your answer is complete task them before
academic lecture the lecture is gonna
last for 1.5 to 2 minutes and it's gonna
discuss an academic concept or a term
and it's gonna be illustrated with two
examples and they're going to be kind of
opposite examples like before and after
or maybe cause and effect and mostly the
lecture we'll talk about those examples
so the introduction of a concept itself
is like three to five sentences and then
the lecturer or professor goes into
explaining the examples I think when I
was passing my TOEFL I had something
about reptiles they had an example of
two different kinds of reptiles and how
they give birth to their babies and he
was talking about like laying eggs in
the sand and
protecting your kids from like turtles
kids from birds and the other example
was somehow the reptile that would just
lay eggs and go away I had to summarize
two of those examples so basically I'm
gonna teach you how to do that you're
gonna get something very similar again
the topic can be completely different
but the structure is gonna be the same
so the template is super useful the
lecture is about and you mentioned a
specific subject here the lecture is
about how reptiles give birth which is
laying eggs in the sand or whatever say
give details here then you go into the
examples first the professor states that
first the professor's states that
there's type of reptiles that take care
of their eggs for example Mediterranean
turtles or whatever and you talked about
the first example by the way this is a
three to five sentences and the same for
the second example so your parts have to
be kind of similar second the professor
notes that there's another type of
turtles and that type doesn't care about
its babies for instance and you see how
I'm using different introductory phrases
and words because you need to sound
different and by learning this you're
gonna sound different every time
instance Atlantic Turtles I have no idea
about the turtles I'm just giving you
examples and again this is three to five
sentences again here you don't need a
finish exactly because the task is to
summarize those two examples but you can
always say these are two examples that
the professor discusses and the lecture
whoever it was okay when I say professor
you might have a lecture or you might
have just a student presenting something
so make sure you replace this that's it
let's summarize your strategy for the
speaking part that was it by the way for
questions that's it new TOEFL you ready
first learn the templates they gonna be
so helpful they were the most helpful
thing for me during my speaking part and
writing templates were the most helpful
thing for me for the writing part and
you can find the writing templates in
our course in our TOEFL course second
write things down all the important
details should be written down the third
advice is actually practice taking notes
at home because you need to be like a
journalist like you you see them
sometimes in the news like writing
things down very quickly practice taking
notes in English fourth enroll in a
TOEFL course this is from me who's gonna
be super useful and structuring
everything you already have in your head
and adding some more methods that are
going to be helpful during your exam
again all the useful links are below
thank you so much for watching this
video watch my other videos about TOEFL
get ready for your exam and a sit and a
set means score from 100 to 120 all the
best see you soon